
In this challenge based on different stock prices on 2017 and 2018 and we are asked to find the total daily volume and return for each ticker. For that I started with example from the course material. In the data set there were data from 12 different stocks the course example looped the entire data set for each of the tickers while only the fraction of the data set was relevant to that ticker. Such solutions can be very inefficient and hence was not scalable. In the solution I provide here, I only looped the entire data set once, and assumed that the tickers sorted alphabetically and within each ticker the data are sorted by data. So, I define an array of the tickers and assign and index “I” to it. In the main loop I started with the index i=0 and track ticker name until it is changed, when I increased the index number. In order to calculate the proper parameter for each ticker, I check if the ticker is first, middle or last row for each of the ticker. If it is first row, I saved the start price in an array that I defined and set the total volume to the volume of that row. If it is middle row, I only add the volume to the previous total volume and if it is the last row of that ticker, I calculate the total volume and save the price in the final price array and increase the ticker index. This way I calculate the start price, end price and total volume for each ticker and save it in corresponding array. Finally, I go back to the result workbook and loop through the ticker numbers and write each array value in a cell and finally set the format to what suggested in course material.

